K8s selectors enhance operators (#610)
flightctl/flightctl: docs/user/field-selectors.md

Reviewer: Adding more examples can be useful, especially for popular cases.

Author: Will do

Author: 4c8f1cb25411f362bc72044a34e137764cb569ed

Author: @fzdarsky @hexfusion @celdrake please share your comments for the committed docs

## Supported Fields

The following table lists the fields supported for filtering Flight Control objects:

| Field Name                   | Field Type           |
|------------------------------|----------------------|
| `metadata.name`              | `String`             |
| `metadata.owner`             | `String`             |
| `metadata.labels`            | `StringArray`        |
| `metadata.annotations`       | `StringArray`        |
| `metadata.creationTimestamp` | `Timestamp`          |
| `metadata.deletionTimestamp` | `Timestamp`          |

> | `spec`                       | `JSON`               |

Author: @fzdarsky, we already expose the Status field through StatusFilter, which is currently supported by the API.

Modifying the Spec or Status fields could also disrupt clients that use the Go client package to query these structures, as well as CLI with oyaml and ojson and manually parse them.

These JSONB fields are indexed in the same way, indexing all JSON structures within

> | `spec`                       | `JSON`               |

Reviewer 2: > @fzdarsky, we already expose the Status field through StatusFilter, which is currently supported by the API.

That's fine. I didn't say we shouldn't support anything under `.status`, I'm wondering whether we should start with an allow-list containing a small number of fields that we can expand according to user demand, rather than opening up everything forever (as we won't be able to reduce the list later).

> Modifying the Spec or Status fields could also disrupt clients that use the Go client package to query these structures, as well as CLI with oyaml and ojson that manually parse them.

True. But that's not a good analogy because a) the client-go package can hide changes through defaulting, up/down-conversion, etc. and b) it means we don't place the burden on the user but own it ourselves.

Also, remember that a client-go user would be a software developer familiar with handling API versioning. The user of the field selector would be a Linux SysAdmin.

| `status`                     | `JSON`               |

> **Note:** While `metadata.labels` can be queried using Field Selectors, for more extensive label querying options, consider using Label Selectors.

> ### Usage Examples

Reviewer 2: Fantastic examples ❤️

Error: listing devices: 400, message: unknown or unsupported field: unable to resolve field name "text". Supported fields are: [metadata.annotations metadata.creationTimestamp metadata.deletionTimestamp spec metadata.owner metadata.labels metadata.alias status metadata.name metadata.nameoralias]
```
In this example, the field `text` is not a valid field for filtering. The error message provides a list of supported fields that can be used with `--field-selector` for the `device` object.

You can then use one of the supported fields, as shown below:
```bash
flightctl get devices --field-selector 'metadata.alias @> cluster'
```
In this command, the `metadata.alias` field is checked with the containment operator `@>` to see if it contains the value `cluster`.

### Handling JSON Fields

JSON fields allow querying by specific JSON values, but certain scenarios may require additional functionality.
<br>For example:

- Casting is available to treat values as specific data types, such as numbers, enabling comparison operators.
- The containment operator allows checking if a JSON field or array includes particular values.

These features provide greater flexibility for querying JSON data.

> #### Casting

Author: @fzdarsky They will lose valuable capabilities; see the example. I believe those who want to delve deeper into advanced functionality would actually appreciate this.

In any case, most clients will likely use the basics, but we shouldn't limit those who want to become Flightctl experts.

> #### Casting

Reviewer 2: The example use case is valuable, I agree. My question was more why we don't simply allow `status.lastSeen < 2024-11-07T00:00:00Z` and own the casting ourselves?

Casting enables you to treat the value at the specified key path as another supported datatype, allowing the use of relevant operators for that type. 

Supported casting types are: `boolean`, `integer`, `smallint`, `bigint`, `float`, `timestamp`, and `string`.

To use casting, add the `::<TYPE>` suffix to the key path when filtering.

For example:
```bash
flightctl get devices --field-selector 'status.lastSeen::timestamp < 2024-11-07T00:00:00Z'
```
In this example, the `status.lastSeen` field is cast to `timestamp`, allowing the use of the `<` operator with an RFC3339-formatted date. This retrieves devices where `status.lastSeen` is earlier than the specified date.

#### Containment Operator

The containment operator `@>` matches if the value at the specified key path contains the provided JSON value.

This operator can also handle JSON arrays and can be used to check if a JSON array contains specific JSON path/value entries at the top level.

For example:
```bash

> flightctl get devices --field-selector 'spec.applications @> [{"image":"quay.io/rh_ee_camadorg/oci-app"}]'

Author: @fzdarsky I initially started with =~ (like) for the Alias field. This introduces some challenges: is it a prefix match, suffix match, or both? Additionally, the JSONB containment operator is well-defined. The term 'Contains' is stronger and is ultimately used for JSON, arrays, and strings in a single operator.

> flightctl get devices --field-selector 'spec.applications @> [{"image":"quay.io/rh_ee_camadorg/oci-app"}]'

Reviewer 2: There isn't a single definition for `=~`. Most commonly it's a regex match (Perl, Bash) and then prefix match or suffix match wouldn't even be an issue, but other places define it as case-insensitive string match. And even if that's a concern, we could simply chose `~` or `~=` or `∈` or whatever symbol we want. Really just something that's _somewhat_ intuitive and memorizable to a _non-developer_ (and non-SQL-expert ;)).

The semantic of that symbol is also up to us to define. We could simply say this is the symbol for `contains`.

# Field Selectors

Field selectors filter a list of Flight Control objects based on specific resource field values.<br>

> They follow the same syntax, principles, and support the same operators as Kubernetes Field and Label selectors.

Reviewer 3: I'd add something along of the lines of the suggestion, given we next describe more operators than only those supported by Kubernetes.

```suggestion
They follow the same syntax, principles, and support the same operators as Kubernetes Field and Label selectors. Some additional operators are also supported to allow for more advanced search use cases.
```

Author: Change to: 
They follow the same syntax, principles, and support the same operators as Kubernetes Field and Label selectors, with additional operators available for more advanced search use cases.

## Supported Fields

The following table lists the fields supported for filtering Flight Control objects:

| Field Name                   | Field Type           |
|------------------------------|----------------------|
| `metadata.name`              | `String`             |
| `metadata.owner`             | `String`             |

> | `metadata.labels`            | `StringArray`        |

Reviewer 3: Maybe it's worth nothing that `labels` can be queried more extensively using `labelSelector` instead.

Author: Added note: 'While `metadata.labels` can be queried using Field Selectors, for more extensive label querying options, consider using Label Selectors.'

| `metadata.annotations`       | `StringArray`        |
| `metadata.creationTimestamp` | `Timestamp`          |
| `metadata.deletionTimestamp` | `Timestamp`          |
| `spec`                       | `JSON`               |
| `status`                     | `JSON`               |

### Usage Examples

Use the `--field-selector` flag to filter devices based on field values. Here are some examples:

#### Example 1: Exclude a Specific Device by Name
This command filters out a specific device by its name:
```bash
flightctl get devices --field-selector 'metadata.name!=c3tkb18x9fw32fzx5l556n0p0dracwbl4uiojxu19g2'
```
#### Example 2: Filter by Owner, Labels, and Creation Timestamp

> This command retrieves devices owned by `Fleet/pos-fleet`, located in the `us` region, and created in 2024:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This command retrieves devices owned by `Fleet/pos-fleet`, located in the `us` region, and created before 2025:
```

Author: but it also has 'metadata.creationTimestamp >= 2024-01-01T00:00:00Z'

Reviewer 3: Sorry, for some reason I missed the check >= Jan 2024. Resolving comment :)

```

### Fields Discovery

Some Flight Control Objects might expose additional supported fields. You can discover the supported fields by using `flightctl` with the `--field-selector` option. If you attempt to use an unsupported field, the error message will list the available supported fields.

For example:

```bash
flightctl get device --field-selector='text'

Error: listing devices: 400, message: unknown or unsupported field: unable to resolve field name "text". Supported fields are: [metadata.annotations metadata.creationTimestamp metadata.deletionTimestamp spec metadata.owner metadata.labels metadata.alias status metadata.name metadata.nameoralias]
```
In this example, the field `text` is not a valid field for filtering. The error message provides a list of supported fields that can be used with `--field-selector` for the `device` object.

You can then use one of the supported fields, as shown below:
```bash
flightctl get devices --field-selector 'metadata.alias @> cluster'
```
In this command, the `metadata.alias` field is checked with the containment operator `@>` to see if it contains the value `cluster`.

> ### Fields Discovery

Reviewer 3: "Fields Discovery" section is duplicate, with a few minor variations in each case.

Author: Fixed
